We can now specify the page in the query string and if we leave the page out it defaults to PAGE ONE
if we leave the variable in however.
But passing a non numeric value we get an error.
It's not a good idea to let errors happen this easily especially as it will be very easy for someone
to change the query string and cast the error.
So let's add some validation to the page number in the query string.
The filter var function can be used to make show a variable contains a certain value.
There are several filters available but the one we want for the page number is the one for integers.
In the paginated class before we use the page number coming from the query string to calculate the offset
will call the filter function passing in the page variable and the constant that will validate it as
an integer and then assigning the result back into the page variable so that we can see what's happening.
Let's dump out the value of the variable before and after the filter is applied.
With a valid page number the filter var function simply converts the string into an integer as we can
see from the before and after values of the page variable.
If I changed this to something that isn't a number.
However we get an error we can see that the filter var function has returned false as this isn't an
integer.
This isn't much use though as we still have the error.
The filter var function has an optional third argument which is an array of options for the Chosen type
of filter for the integer filter.
We can specify a default value a minimum and a maximum.
Let's add the default option to the filter var function call.
This is the value the function will return.
If the value passed two it isn't an integer.
Now in the browser if we change the query string to a numeric value the function defaults to 1.
We can still cause an error though.
If I put a negative number for the value.
The filter doesn't default.
This has this is a valid integer.
In addition to a default value we can also specify a minimum like that.
Now in the browser.
If I change the page to a negative number it changes it to 1 as this is the minimum a value for the
page number.
We could also specify a maximum value so that if we put in a page number that's higher than the number
of pages
then it would just show the last page.
But I don't think that's correct behaviour.
If the page number is too high it should be an empty page.
Now that we have this working we can remove these two dump lines like that.